## The Migration of Gothic Culture and Fashion
## [Home](https://dubemc.github.io/Gothic-Migration/) - [Summary](https://dubemc.github.io/Gothic-Migration/analysis.md) - [Analysis](https://dubemc.github.io/Gothic-Migration/) - [Reaction](https://dubemc.github.io/Gothic-Migration/) - [Maps](https://dubemc.github.io/Gothic-Migration/) - [Process Memo](https://dubemc.github.io/Gothic-Migration/)

  As someone who delved into the culture around 13 years old, I thank my aunt for introducing me to gothic culture, as she has been goth since its peak in the 1980s. Through the 7 years of being goth, I know the music, the fashion, the religion aspects, the political beliefs, and the overall message that goths convey. My story is linked to this topic, obviously, due to the way I convey myself and my beliefs; my entire closet, room, and altar are designed specifically dark, witchy, and cohesive. However, I specifically do not know how gothic culture was spread throughout the world during its start, and I want to connect it to how the culture gained popularity again due to the media being consumed.

### Intro

The word "Goth" came from the middle ages, as in the late 300s and early 400s A.D. The "Gothic Warriors" were ancient Germanic warriors who threatened the Roman empire and created their own "stories of their mythical origin"; they carved their own kingdoms from the Roman empire and these mythical stories. This old "goth" led to the sub-culture's name and turned into a "counter-cultural" and politically-driven alternative punk identity used by many to show their disdain for governmental corruption and destruction of the environment through higher, human powers. The subculture is also related to the gothic literary genre, which is described as a "mood of horror, morbidity, and darkness." The newer "Goth" subculture originally started as a music genre in the 1970s within the United Kingdom. The music genre was pioneered by the bands Joy Division, Bauhaus, Siouxsie and The Banshees, and The Cure, all of which created dark, dreary music while in carefully crafted, mostly black in color, outfits of which they used to state their political and social ideologies. Goth, in all, correlates to "depression, loneliness, and cynicism toward society."
Goth developed in the United States around the late 1970s to the early 1980s when gothic bands would tour in the states. The gothic culture began to spread rapidly throughout their fanbases. The spread caused the subcategories of cybergoth, industrial goth, traditional goth, and many more. While the culture was thriving in the 1980s, my aunt, Kristen Diefenderfer, was introduced to goth culture by going to a The Cure concert in Ann Arbor, Michigan, at the Michigan Theater in 1984. Since the culture started, the population has depleated until recently, when the social media platform TikTok brought many more people from around the world into the culture.
