## The Migration of Gothic Culture and Fashion
## [Summary](https://dubemc.github.io/Gothic-Migration/) - [Analysis](https://dubemc.github.io/Gothic-Migration/) - [Reaction](https://dubemc.github.io/Gothic-Migration/) - [Maps](https://dubemc.github.io/Gothic-Migration/) - [Process Memo](https://dubemc.github.io/Gothic-Migration/)

### Summary
My research process into figuring out the Migration of Gothic Culture started with interviewing my Aunt, Kristen Diefenderfer. This interview took place on Thanksgiving in Detroit, Michigan in 2021. During this interview, my aunt talked about how she was introduced to gothic culture at a The Cure concert in the Michigan Theater in Ann Arbor, Michigan in the year 1984. At another point during our interview, she discussed how she figured out the origin of this subculture, in which she said, "{The gothic bands} started around the same times, I think, in the 1970s, but they only started touring America in the 1980s." Her discussion of their origins seemed to agree with the information I found in my first source, The Evolution of Goth Culture: The Origins and Deeds of the New Goths, by Karl Spracklen and Beverley Spracklen. Within that source, Karl and Beverley Spracklen, discussed that the origins of the newer gothic subculture started in the United Kingdom in the 1970s within the underground punk bands (at the time) - Joy Division, Bauhaus, Siouxsie and The Banshees, etc. In contrast, my secondary source, The Evolution of the Perceptions of the Goth Subculture by Sabrina Newman, talked about how, after its start in the 1980s, the American television channel, MTV, began broadcasting newer gothic bands, such as The Sisters of Mercy and the Clan of Xymox, which allowed the subculture to migrate beyond concerts and the radio. The second source also stressed how the subculture was "killed off" by MTV making it more "mainstream" instead of keeping it to the "outsiders" of society. 

The three secondary sources I used - The Origin and Development of the Creative Goth Subculture by Eveliina Myllyma, The Origins of Goth by Claire Nally, and Who was the first goth? A brief history of goth for World Goth Day by Olivia Waring - helped me realize that the migration of gothic culture allowed my aunt and society's outcasts to feel a sense of community, worthiness, and expression. However, it was my third source, Dorian (who goes by Of Herbs and Altars online), that helped me understand how the migration of gothic culture has influenced the life of outcasts who identify with the label of "Goth" from a perspective of someone under that label. Dorian, who uses the pronouns "they/he", describes, in detail, their life from the peak of the subculture to the current day and how the migration of this subculture has allowed them to experience a sense of worthiness and belonging as well as allowed them to mentally heal through self-expression. Dorian concluded that the migration of the subculture ultimately led to other alternative forms of self-expression for outcasts. 
